     The family of Dashwood had long been settled in Sussex. 
Their estate was large, and their residence was at Norland 
Park, in the centre of their property, where, for many 
generations, they had lived in so respectable a manner as to 
engage the general good opinion of their surrounding 
acquaintance. The late owner of this estate was a single 
man, who lived to a very advanced age, and who for many 
years of his life, had a constant companion and housekeeper 
in his sister. But her death, which happened ten years 
before his own, produced a great alteration in his home; for 
to supply her loss, he invited and received into his house 
the family of his nephew Mr. Henry Dashwood, the legal 
inheritor of the Norland estate, and the person to whom he 
intended to bequeath it. In the society of his nephew and 
niece, and their children, the old Gentleman's days were 
comfortably spent. His attachment to them all increased. The 
constant attention of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Dashwood to his 
wishes, which proceeded not merely from interest, but from 
goodness of heart, gave him every degree of solid comfort 
which his age could receive; and the cheerfulness of the 
children added a relish to his existence. 

          By a former marriage, Mr. Henry Dashwood 
     had one son: by his present lady, three daughters. 
      The son, a steady respectable young man, was 
     amply provided for by the fortune of his mother, 
     which had been large, and half of which devolved 
     on him on his coming of age. By his own marriage, 
     likewise, which happened soon afterwards, he added 
     to his wealth. To him therefore the succession to 
     the Norland estate was not so really important as 
     to his sisters; for their fortune, independent of 
     what might arise to them from their father's 
     inheriting that property, could be but small. 
     Their mother had nothing, and their father only 
     seven thousand pounds in his own disposal; for the 
     remaining moiety of his first wife's fortune was 
     also secured to her child, and he had only a 
     life-interest in it. 

             The old gentleman died: his will was 
          read, and like almost every other will, gave as 
          much disappointment as pleasure.  He was neither 
          so unjust, nor so ungrateful, as to leave his 
          estate from his nephew; but he left it to him on 
          such terms as destroyed half the value of the 
          bequest. Mr. Dashwood had wished for it more for 
          the sake of his wife and daughters than for 
          himself or his son; but to his son, and his son's 
          son, a child of four years old, it was secured, in 
          such a way, as to leave to himself no power of 
          providing for those who were most dear to him, and 
          who most needed a provision by any charge on the 
          estate, or by any sale of its valuable woods. The 
          whole was tied up for the benefit of this child, 
          who, in occasional visits with his father and 
          mother at Norland, had so far gained on the 
          affections of his uncle, by such attractions as 
          are by no means unusual in children of two or 
          three years old; an imperfect articulation, an 
          earnest desire of having his own way, many cunning 
          tricks, and a great deal of noise, as to outweigh 
          all the value of all the attention which, for 
          years, he had received from his niece and her 
          daughters. He meant not to be unkind, however, 
          and, as a mark of his affection for the three 
          girls, he left them a thousand pounds a-piece.

